Barak Obama
Fame: 99%
Birthdate: 4 August 1961
Birthplace: Kapiʻolani Medical Center for Women & Children, Honolulu, Hawaii, United States
Barack Hussein Obama II is an American politician and comes at the top of the list of popular celebrities. Stanley Ann Dunham, his mother, was a white American from Wichita, Kansas, and Barack Obama Sr., 
his father, was a black man from Alego, Kenya. 
As an active member of the Democratic Party, he was the first chosen African-American President of the United States and frequently made headlines with both his political career and personal life.
He served as the 44th President of the United States from the year 2009 to 2017.


EQUITABLE RECOVERY
Founded in 2014, the mission of The Barack Obama Foundation is to inspire, empower, and connect people to change their world. Its core programs and activities include leadership development, youth mentorship, 
fostering of civic innovation, and creative problem-solving in the United States and throughout the world. This award enables the Obama Foundation to construct a programming space for the W.K. Kellogg Foundation’s Truth, 
Racial Healing & Transformation Initiative (TRHT) within the Obama Presidential Center (OPC) on Chicago’s South Side. The TRHT space at the OPC will host trainings, gatherings, and webinars for racial healing practitioners, 
in addition to creating a multimedia production about racial healing and collective actions.

CHICAGO COMMITMENT
Founded in 2014, the mission of The Barack Obama Foundation is to inspire, empower, and connect people to change their world. Its core programs and activities include leadership development, youth mentorship, 
fostering civic innovation, and creative problem solving in the United States and throughout the world. This award enables the Obama Foundation to construct a branch of the Chicago Public Library within the Obama Presidential 
Center on Chicago's south side. The Obama Presidential Center Branch will house multimedia collections, host community programming and include spaces for reading and studying that can be converted to open seating for events. 
The Branch Library will also include a YOUmedia Learning Lab, a space that offers young people high-quality learning experiences along with the digital tools and technologies to explore their interests.

Achievments:
1 – Rescued the country from the Great Recession, cutting the unemployment rate from 10% to 4.7% over six years
2 – Signed the Affordable Care Act which provided health insurance to over 20 million uninsured Americans
3 – Ended the war in Iraq
4 – Ordered for the capture and killing of Osama Bin Laden
5 – Passed the $787 billion America Recovery and Reinvestment Act to spur economic growth during the Great Recession
7 – Commuted the sentences of nearly 1200 drug offenders to reverse “unjust and outdated prison sentences"
8 – Saved the U.S. auto industry
9 – Helped put the U.S. ontrack for energy independence by 2020
10 – Began the drawdown of troops in Afghanistan
11 – Signed the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals allowing as many as 5 million people living in the U.S. illegally to avoid deportation and receive work permits
12 –Signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to re-regulate the financial sector
13 – Dropped the veteran homeless rate by 50 percent
14 – Reversed Bush-era torture policies
15 – Began the process of normalizing relations with Cuba
18 – Boosted fuel efficiency standards for cars
19 – Improved school nutrition with the Healthy Hunger-Free Kids Act
21 – Signed the Hate Crimes Prevention Act, making it a federal crime to assault anyone based on sexual or gender identification
22 – Helped negotiate the landmark Iran Nuclear Deal
23 – He signed the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act to combat pay discrimination against women
24 – Nominated Sonia Sotomayor to the Supreme Court, making her the first Hispanic ever to serve as a justice
25 – Supported veterans through a $78 billion tuition assistance GI bill
26 – Won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2009 “for his extraordinary efforts to strengthen international diplomacy and cooperation between peoples"
27 – Launched My Brother's Keeper, a White House initiative designed to help young minorities achieve their full potential
28 – Expanded embryonic stem cell research leading to groundbreaking work in areas including spinal injury treatment and cancer